Add i18n (#167)
kioku-project/kioku: docs/frontend_development.md

## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)

> - [Internationalization](#internationalization)

Author: ok.

The frontend of Kioku is written in [React](https://react.dev/), using the [NextJS](https://nextjs.org/) framework. All the styling is done directly inside of the components, using [TailwindCSS](https://tailwindcss.com/). To document all of our frontend components, we use [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org/) in conjunction with [Chromatic](https://www.chromatic.com/) for visual regression testing.

> # Internationalization

Author: implemented in 85fcc73

> To internationalize Kioku in different languages, we use NextJS's native capability for [internationalized routing](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/routing/internationalization) as well as the [Lingui](https://lingui.dev/) library. Our current policy is that english is the default language and a german translation for all texts has to be present. However, if you would like to add another language, contributions are always welcome!

Author: implemented in 85fcc73

> ## NextJS’s native internationalised routing.

Author: implemented in 85fcc73

> NextJS natively supports internationalised routing. This means that it understands `/de/home` is asking for the `home` page with German text. Furthermore, all navigation using Next’s `Link` component and the `useRouter()` hook will automatically adjust the paths in order to keep the correct language for a user.

Author: implemented in 85fcc73

> ## Lingui

Author: implemented in 85fcc73

Lingui is a translation library that offers various macros to ease the process of translating such as plural handling and conditionals. The following section will briefly explain the most important concepts of Lingui:

> ### The `<Trans>` macro

Author: implemented in 85fcc73

> The `<Trans>` macro will most probably be used the often when you want to create an internationalised component

Author: implemented in85fcc73

```jsx
import { Trans } from "@lingui/macro";

function render() {
  return (
    <>
      <h1>
        <Trans>LinguiJS example</Trans>
      </h1>
      <p>
        <Trans>
          Hello <a href="/profile">{name}</a>.
        </Trans>
      </p>
    </>
  );
}
```
By simply wrapping text inside of components with the `<Trans>` macro, the text will be automatically recognized as translatable text.

> ### The `useLingui()` macro

Author: implemented in85fcc73

It is not always possible to wrap text inside of components with the `<Trans>` tag. Take for example this situation, where you want to pass a string as a property to a component:
```jsx
import { msg } from "@lingui/macro";
import { useLingui } from "@lingui/react";

export default function ImageWithCaption() {
  const { _ } = useLingui();

  return <img src="..." alt={_(msg`Image caption`)} />;
}
```
Here, we want to be able to translate the image caption but we can’t use the `<Trans>` tag in the `alt` property so we have to do it like this.

> ### Translate outside of React components

Author: implemented in 85fcc73

> If you want to translat texts that resides in functions that are not React components, you can not use the `<Trans>` tag and `useLingui()` hook, instead you will have to use the `t` macro.

Author: implemented in 85fcc73

```jsx
import { t } from "@lingui/macro";

export function showAlert() {
  alert(t`Warning! Something went wrong!`);
}
```

> ### Plural

Author: implemented in 85fcc73

With Lingui, it is also easy to work pluralization into the frontend text. Plural text can be defined like this and the correct text will automatically be selected depending on the number.
plural(numBooks, {
  one: "# book",
  other: "# books",

> });

Author: done in 85fcc73

> ### Extraction and Compilation

Author: implemented in 85fcc73

To publish storybook to Chromatic run `npm run chromatic`.

## Create a component

If you want to create a new component, add it to a suitable category folder inside of the `components` folder.
A component should always have an implementation in Typescript and a story with the same name ending with `.stories.ts`

- Components should not handle business logic themselves, they should solely display given data.
- Business logic should be inside of a page or generalized in functions outside of the component itself
- A component should have stories for all different versions. For example: if a button can be toggled between a primary and secondary style, both cases should be covered by stories.

## Internationalization

> To internationalize Kioku in different languages, we use NextJS's native capability for [internationalized routing](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/routing/internationalization) as well as the [Lingui](https://lingui.dev/) library. Our current policy is that english is the default language and a german translation for all texts has to be provided. However, if you would like to add another language, contributions are always welcome!

Author: changed in 439e3a7

> ### NextJS’s native internationalized routing.

Author: changed in 439e3a7

> NextJS natively supports internationalized routing. This means that it understands `/de/home` is asking for the `home` page with German text. Furthermore, all navigation using Next’s `Link` component and the `useRouter()` hook will automatically adjust the paths in order to keep the correct language for a user.

Author: changed in 439e3a7

> ### Lingui

Author: changed in 439e3a7

> Lingui is a translation library that offers various macros to ease the process of translating such as plural handling and conditionals. The following section will briefly explain the most important concepts of Lingui:

Author: changed in 439e3a7

#### The `<Trans>` macro

The `<Trans>` macro will probably be used most often when you want to create an internationalized component
```jsx
import { Trans } from "@lingui/macro";

function render() {
  return (
    <>
      <h1>
        <Trans>LinguiJS example</Trans>
      </h1>
      <p>
        <Trans>
          Hello <a href="/profile">{name}</a>.
        </Trans>
      </p>
    </>
  );
}
```
By simply wrapping text inside of components with the `<Trans>` macro, the text will be automatically recognized as translatable text.

#### The `useLingui()` macro

> It is not always possible to wrap text inside of components with the `<Trans>` tag. Take for example this situation, where you want to pass a string as a property to a component:

Author: changed in 439e3a7

```jsx
import { msg } from "@lingui/macro";
import { useLingui } from "@lingui/react";

export default function ImageWithCaption() {
  const { _ } = useLingui();

  return <img src="..." alt={_(msg`Image caption`)} />;
}
```

> Here, we want to be able to translate the image caption but we can’t use the `<Trans>` tag in the `alt` property so we have to do it like this.

Author: changed in 439e3a7

#### Translate outside of React components

> If you want to translate texts that reside in functions that are not React components, you can not use the `<Trans>` tag and the `useLingui()` hook, instead you will have to use the `t` macro.

Author: changed in 439e3a7

```jsx
import { t } from "@lingui/macro";

export function showAlert() {
  alert(t`Warning! Something went wrong!`);
}
```

#### Plural

> With Lingui, it is also easy to work pluralization into the frontend text. Plural text can be defined like this and the correct text will automatically be selected depending on the number.

Author: changed in 439e3a7

To publish storybook to Chromatic run `npm run chromatic`.

## Create a component

If you want to create a new component, add it to a suitable category folder inside of the `components` folder.
A component should always have an implementation in Typescript and a story with the same name ending with `.stories.ts`

- Components should not handle business logic themselves, they should solely display given data.
- Business logic should be inside of a page or generalized in functions outside of the component itself
- A component should have stories for all different versions. For example: if a button can be toggled between a primary and secondary style, both cases should be covered by stories.

## Internationalization

> To internationalize Kioku in different languages, we use NextJS's native capability for [internationalized routing](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/routing/internationalization) as well as the [Lingui](https://lingui.dev/) library. Our current policy is that English is the default language and a German translation for all texts has to be provided. However, if you would like to add another language, contributions are always welcome!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To internationalize Kioku in different languages, we use Next.js's native capability for [internationalized routing](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/routing/internationalization) as well as the [Lingui](https://lingui.dev/) library. Our current policy is that English is the default language and a German translation for all texts has to be provided. However, if you would like to add another language, contributions are always welcome!
```

Author: fixed in 5cfc1b2

> ### NextJS’s native internationalized routing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Next.js’s native internationalized routing.
```

Author: fixed in 5cfc1b2
